MIG-1620: Virtual machine storage migration (#81461)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/mtc-deploying-a-vm.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * migration_toolkit_for_containers/mtc-migrating-vms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="mtc-deploying-a-vm_{context}"]
= Deploying a virtual machine

> After installing and activating {VirtProductName} and Containerized Data Importer (CDI), create a namespace and deploy a virtual machine (VM).

Author: ```suggestion
After installing and activating {VirtProductName} and Containerized Data Importer (CDI), create a namespace and deploy a virtual machine (VM). 
```

.Procedure

> * Deploy the following YAML, which creates both a VM definition and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system:

Author: ```suggestion
* Deploy the YAML, which creates both a VM definition and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system. 
+
In the following example, the namespace `mig-vm` is used and the following YAML is used to create a Fedora VM:
```

              name: rootdisk
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: cloudinitdisk
          interfaces:
            - masquerade: {}
              model: virtio
              name: default
          rng: {}
        features:
          acpi: {}
          smm:
            enabled: true
        firmware:
          bootloader:
            efi: {}
        machine:
          type: pc-q35-rhel9.4.0
        memory:
          guest: 2Gi
        resources: {}
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: {}
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 180
      volumes:
        - dataVolume:
            name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
          name: rootdisk
        - cloudInitNoCloud:
            userData: |-
              #cloud-config
              user: cloud-user
              password: password
              chpasswd: { expire: False }
          name: cloudinitdisk
----

<1> In this example, the namespace `mig-vm` is used.
<2> Use `running: true` to indicate that the VM should be started after creation.
<3> The data volume creates a persistent volume claim (PVC) called `rhel9-lime-damselfly-72`, which is the same name as the data volume.

> * The persistent volume (PV) is populated with the operating system, and the VM is started.

Author: ```suggestion
The persistent volume (PV) is populated with the operating system, and the VM is started.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * migration_toolkit_for_containers/mtc-migrating-vms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="mtc-deploying-a-vm_{context}"]
= Deploying a Virtual Machine

> When you have installed {VirtProductName} and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
fter you have installed and activated {VirtProductName} and CDI, you can create a namespace and deploy a virtual machine. In the following example, the namespace `mig-vm` is used.
```

> fter you have installed and activated {VirtProductName} and CDI, you can create a namespace and deploy a virtual machine. In the following example, the namespace `mig-vm` is used.

Author: ```suggestion
After you have installed and activated {VirtProductName} and CDI, you can create a namespace and deploy a virtual machine. In the following example, the namespace `mig-vm` is used.
```

.Procedure

> In the following example, the namespace `mig-vm` is used.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Deploy the following YAML to create a Fedora virtual machine (VM).

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:

>   name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72

Author: ```suggestion
  name: mig-vm
```

>   namespace: default

Reviewer: we need to remove `namespace: default`, migration is not working in default namespace

Reviewer: In this example, we use the namespace mig-vm.  -- then we could update to `namespace: mig-vm`

>   namespace: default

Author: ```suggestion
  namespace: mig-vm
```

>   namespace: default

Author: ```suggestion
  namespace: mig-vm
```

> * Deploy the following YAML, which creates both a virtual machine definition and a data volume containing the Fedora operator system:

Author: ```suggestion
* Deploy the following YAML, which creates both a virtual machine definition and a data volume containing the Fedora operator system:
```

  labels:
    app: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
    kubevirt.io/dynamic-credentials-support: 'true'
    vm.kubevirt.io/template: rhel9-server-small
    vm.kubevirt.io/template.namespace: openshift
    vm.kubevirt.io/template.revision: '1'
    vm.kubevirt.io/template.version: v0.31.1
spec:
  dataVolumeTemplates:
    - apiVersion: cdi.kubevirt.io/v1beta1
      kind: DataVolume
      metadata:
        name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
      spec:
        sourceRef:
          kind: DataSource
          name: rhel9
          namespace: openshift-virtualization-os-images
        storage:
          resources:
            requests:
              storage: 30Gi

>   running: false

Reviewer 2: So in 4.18 `running` has been deprecated, in favor of `runStrategy`. So instead of `running: false` please use `runStrategy: Manual` this will create the VM but not have it running.

Author: No, I am going to push this for `< = 4.17` and then i have another ticket for 4.18 listing the updates for 4.18

>   running: false

Author: ```suggestion
  running: false # <1>
```

  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        vm.kubevirt.io/flavor: small
        vm.kubevirt.io/os: rhel9
        vm.kubevirt.io/workload: server
      creationTimestamp: null
      labels:

>         kubevirt.io/domain: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72

Author: ```suggestion
        kubevirt.io/domain: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72 # <2>
```

        network.kubevirt.io/headlessService: headless
    spec:
      architecture: amd64
      domain:
        cpu:
          cores: 1
          sockets: 1
          threads: 1
        devices:
          disks:
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: rootdisk
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: cloudinitdisk
          interfaces:
            - masquerade: {}
              model: virtio
              name: default
          rng: {}
        features:
          acpi: {}
          smm:
            enabled: true
        firmware:
          bootloader:
            efi: {}
        machine:
          type: pc-q35-rhel9.4.0
        memory:
          guest: 2Gi
        resources: {}
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: {}
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 180
      volumes:
        - dataVolume:
            name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
          name: rootdisk
        - cloudInitNoCloud:
            userData: |-
              #cloud-config
              user: cloud-user
              password: password
              chpasswd: { expire: False }
          name: cloudinitdisk
----

> This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system. Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.

Reviewer 2: Instead of `running: true` use `runStrategy: Always` or `runStrategy: RerunOnFailure` to start the VM. Always will always restart the VM if it stops, and RerunOnFailure is similar to Always except that it only restarts if the VM is stopped in an uncontroller fashion like it crashing or running out of memory.

Author: This PR is for OCP 4.17 and MTC 1.8.5, i then have a second ticket for OCP 4.18 and MTC 1.8.6

> The data volume also creates a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) called `fedora-40-dv-template` which is the same name as the data volume.

Author: ```suggestion
The data volume also creates a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) called `rhel9-lime-damselfly-72` which is the same name as the data volume.
```

> This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system. Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.

Author: ```suggestion
<1> Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    spec:
      architecture: amd64
      domain:
        cpu:
          cores: 1
          sockets: 1
          threads: 1
        devices:
          disks:
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: rootdisk
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: cloudinitdisk
          interfaces:
            - masquerade: {}
              model: virtio
              name: default
          rng: {}
        features:
          acpi: {}
          smm:
            enabled: true
        firmware:
          bootloader:
            efi: {}
        machine:
          type: pc-q35-rhel9.4.0
        memory:
          guest: 2Gi
        resources: {}
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: {}
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 180
      volumes:
        - dataVolume:
            name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
          name: rootdisk
        - cloudInitNoCloud:
            userData: |-
              #cloud-config
              user: cloud-user
              password: password
              chpasswd: { expire: False }
          name: cloudinitdisk
----

<1> Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="mtc-deploying-a-vm_{context}"]
= Deploying a Virtual Machine

When you have installed KubeVirt and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.

> For this example we use the namespace `mig-vm`. And create the following YAML to create a Fedora Virtual Machine.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example we use the namespace `mig-vm`. 

.Procedure

* Create the following YAML to create a Fedora Virtual Machine.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="mtc-deploying-a-vm_{context}"]
= Deploying a Virtual Machine

When you have installed KubeVirt and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.

> For this example we use the namespace `mig-vm`. And create the following YAML to create a Fedora Virtual Machine.

Reviewer 3: Suggestions:

Add .Procedure.
Looks like a single-step procedure, if so, start with an asterisk (*). "Create the following YAML...For this example, we we use..."

.Procedure

* Create the following YAML to create a Fedora Virtual Machine.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

+
```

  - metadata:
      name: fedora-40-dv-template
      namespace: mig-vm
    spec:
      storage:
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 8Gi
      source:
        http:
          url: "https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/40/Cloud/x86_64/images/Fedora-Cloud-Base-AmazonEC2.x86_64-40-1.14.raw.xz"
  running: true
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        kubevirt.io/vm: vm-fedora
    spec:
      networks:
      - name: default
        pod: {}
      domain:
        ioThreadsPolicy: auto
        devices:
          disks:
          - disk:
              bus: virtio
            name: datavolumedisk1
          - disk:
             bus: virtio
            name: cloudinitdisk
          interfaces:
          - masquerade: {}
            name: default
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 1024Mi
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
      volumes:
      - dataVolume:
          name: fedora-40-dv-template
        name: datavolumedisk1
      - cloudInitNoCloud:
          userData: |-
            #cloud-config
            password: fedora
            chpasswd: { expire: False }
        name: cloudinitdisk
----

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestions:

- Use present tense.
-  "... and a datavolume containing the Fedora operating system, at the time of this writing, Fedora 40." OR "...operating system (at the time of this writing, Fedora 40). Here, I think a parenthetical comment might actually be better, but that's a matter of taste.

> This will create both a virtual machine definition, and a datavolume

Author: ```suggestion
This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a datavolume
```

> This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a datavolume
> containing the Fedora operating system. At the time of this writing
> Fedora 40. `running: true` indicates the virtual machine should be
> started after creation. The datavolume will also create a
> `PersistentVolumeClaim` called `fedora-40-dv-template` which is the
> same name as the datavolume. After a while the persistent volume will be
> populated with the operating system, and the virtual machine is started.

Author: ```suggestion
This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a datavolume containing the Fedora operating system. At the time of this writing Fedora 40. `running: true` indicates the virtual machine should be started after creation. The datavolume also creates a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) called `fedora-40-dv-template` which is the same name as the datavolume. 

After a while, the persistent volume is populated with the operating system, and the virtual machine is started.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * migration_toolkit_for_containers/mtc-migrating-vms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="mtc-deploying-a-vm_{context}"]
= Deploying a Virtual Machine

> When you have installed KubeVirt and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have installed OpenShift Virtualization, and it is active, create a namespace.
```

> When you have installed KubeVirt and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
When you have installed {VirtProductName} and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.
```

In this example we use the namespace `mig-vm`. 

.Procedure

> * Create the following YAML to create a Fedora Virtual Machine.

Author: ```suggestion
* Deploy the following YAML to create a Fedora Virtual Machine.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * migration_toolkit_for_containers/mtc-migrating-vms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="mtc-deploying-a-vm_{context}"]
= Deploying a Virtual Machine

When you have installed {VirtProductName} and CDI, and they are active, create a namespace.

In this example, we use the namespace `mig-vm`.

.Procedure

* Deploy the following YAML to create a Fedora virtual machine (VM).

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  labels:
    kubevirt.io/vm: vm-fedora
  name: vm-fedora
  namespace: mig-vm
spec:

>   dataVolumeTemplates:

Reviewer 2: And entire example here:
```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
    kubevirt.io/dynamic-credentials-support: 'true'
    vm.kubevirt.io/template: rhel9-server-small
    vm.kubevirt.io/template.namespace: openshift
    vm.kubevirt.io/template.revision: '1'
    vm.kubevirt.io/template.version: v0.31.1
spec:
  dataVolumeTemplates:
    - apiVersion: cdi.kubevirt.io/v1beta1
      kind: DataVolume
      metadata:
        name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
      spec:
        sourceRef:
          kind: DataSource
          name: rhel9
          namespace: openshift-virtualization-os-images
        storage:
          resources:
            requests:
              storage: 30Gi
  running: false
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        vm.kubevirt.io/flavor: small
        vm.kubevirt.io/os: rhel9
        vm.kubevirt.io/workload: server
      creationTimestamp: null
      labels:
        kubevirt.io/domain: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
        kubevirt.io/size: small
        network.kubevirt.io/headlessService: headless
    spec:
      architecture: amd64
      domain:
        cpu:
          cores: 1
          sockets: 1
          threads: 1
        devices:
          disks:
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: rootdisk
            - disk:
                bus: virtio
              name: cloudinitdisk
          interfaces:
            - masquerade: {}
              model: virtio
              name: default
          rng: {}
        features:
          acpi: {}
          smm:
            enabled: true
        firmware:
          bootloader:
            efi: {}
        machine:
          type: pc-q35-rhel9.4.0
        memory:
          guest: 2Gi
        resources: {}
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: {}
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 180
      volumes:
        - dataVolume:
            name: rhel9-lime-damselfly-72
          name: rootdisk
        - cloudInitNoCloud:
            userData: |-
              #cloud-config
              user: cloud-user
              password: password
              chpasswd: { expire: False }
          name: cloudinitdisk
```

>   dataVolumeTemplates:

Author: Cool enough, added

@awels && @dymurray - anything you want to callout on the YAML? thanks

>   dataVolumeTemplates:

Author: @duyanyan - please can i ask you for a QE review as well?
Cannot get it merged without QE review, so need you to have a look as well please

  - metadata:
      name: fedora-40-dv-template
      namespace: mig-vm
    spec:
      storage:
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 8Gi
      source:
        http:
          url: "https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/40/Cloud/x86_64/images/Fedora-Cloud-Base-AmazonEC2.x86_64-40-1.14.raw.xz"
  running: true
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        kubevirt.io/vm: vm-fedora
    spec:
      networks:
      - name: default
        pod: {}
      domain:
        ioThreadsPolicy: auto
        devices:
          disks:
          - disk:
              bus: virtio
            name: datavolumedisk1
          - disk:
             bus: virtio
            name: cloudinitdisk
          interfaces:
          - masquerade: {}
            name: default
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 1024Mi
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
      volumes:
      - dataVolume:
          name: fedora-40-dv-template
        name: datavolumedisk1
      - cloudInitNoCloud:
          userData: |-
            #cloud-config
            password: fedora
            chpasswd: { expire: False }
        name: cloudinitdisk
----

> This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system.  Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.

Author: ```suggestion
This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system. Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.
```

> This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system (OS).  Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.

Author: ```suggestion
This creates both a virtual machine definition, and a data volume containing the Fedora operating system.  Use `running: true` to indicate the VM should be started after creation.
```

The data volume also creates a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) called `fedora-40-dv-template` which is the same name as the data volume.

> After a while, the persistent volume (PV) is populated with the OS, and the VM is started.

Author: ```suggestion
After a while, the persistent volume (PV) is populated with the operating system, and the VM is started.
```
